The **FileZilla Client**, used to **connect to FTP servers**, and the **FileZilla Server**, used to **host FTP servers**, are available separately.

This guide will help you install both versions of the application.

## Windows

### Windows FileZilla Client install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Client** using the **Windows installer**:

1. Download the installer from the [official FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php) website.
1. Execute the installer.
1. Click the `Allow` button to authorize the installer to make changes to your system files.
1. Read the License Agreement and click the `I Agree` button.
1. The installer will ask to install third-party software from sponsors. You can choose if you want to install the sponsor software by selecting one of the radio buttons `Accept` or `Decline`.
1. The installer will ask you to select the software availability among the machine users. Select `All users` or `Only for me` and click the `Next >` button.
1. Select all components available to install and click the `Next >` button.
1. Browse and select the destination folder, and click the `Next >` button.
1. Type the Start menu folder name and click the `Install` button.
1. Mark the `Start FileZilla now` checkbox and click the `Finish` button.

You now have the FileZilla client installed, and it should launch right after the last step.

### Windows FileZilla Server install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Server** using the **Windows installer**:

1. Download the installer from the [official FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=server) website.
1. Execute the installer.
1. Click the `Allow` button to authorize the installer to make changes to your system files.
1. Read the License Agreement and click the `I Agree` button.
1. Select all components available to install and click the `Next >` button.
1. Browse and select the destination folder, and click the `Next >` button.
1. Type the Start menu folder name and click the `Next >` button.
1. Configure how the FileZilla server should be installed and started and click the `Next >` button.
1. Change the server listening port (you can leave it as default), set up the administrator password, and click the `Next >` button.
1. Configure the administrator interface and click the `Install` button.
1. Once the installation is complete, click the `Close` button.

The installer will add `Adminstrator FileZilla Server`, `Start FileZilla Server`, and `Stop FileZilla Server` shortcuts to your Windows Desktop folder.

You now have the FileZilla Server installed and ready to use.

## macOS

### macOS FileZilla Client install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Client** with the **macOS** installer:

1. Download the installer from the [official FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=server) website.
1. Execute the installer.

The FileZilla Client will be automatically installed and available in the folder where it was executed.

> **Tip**: Drag the FileZilla client to the Applications folder to make it more accessible in the future.

### macOS FileZilla Server install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Server** with the **macOS** installer:

1. Download the installer from the [official FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=server) website.
1. Execute the installer.
1. Click the `Continue` button.
1. Select all components available to install and click the `Continue` button.
1. Click the `Install` button.

Once installation is complete, the FileZilla Server will automatically open.

## Linux

### Debian-based distributions FileZilla Client install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Client** on **Debian-based distributions**:

1. Open the terminal and update/upgrade the available packages using the `sudo apt update and sudo apt upgrade`. Make sure to enter `y` to confirm upgrades when asked.
1. Run `sudo apt install filezilla` to install the FileZilla client.
1. Enter `y` to confirm installation.
1. Run `filezilla` to open the client.

### Debian-based distributions FileZilla Server install

Follow the steps above to install **FileZilla Server** on Debian-based Linux distributions:

1. Download the installer from the [official FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=server) website.
1. Execute the `.deb` installer`.
1. Confirm installation.
1. FileZilla Server Administration should be available in the Applications list.

> To install FileZilla on other Linux distributions, check the [official documentation](https://wiki.filezilla-project.org/Documentation).