# How to create an FTP server with FileZilla

To create an FTP server with FileZilla Server, follow the steps below:

1. Start the FileZilla Server by running the `Start FileZilla Server` shortcut on the Desktop.
2. Confirm the operation by clicking the `Yes` button.
3. Open the **Administrator FileZilla Server**.
2. Click the `Connect to Server...` button.
3. Update the `Host` field with the actual IP address of the server. Leave it as the default (127.0.0.1) if you want to run a localhost server.
4. Update the `Port` field if needed.
5. Set up a password in the `Password` field.
6. Click the `OK` button.

If this is the first time you run the server, it will ask if you recognize the fingerprint provided by the server.

You should see the `Successfully connected to server <host>:<port>...` status message on the main board of the screen.

## Server users

In order to exchange data with the FTP server, you need to create users. To do so, follow the steps below:

1. Navigate `Server` on the top horizontal menu and click the `Configure...` option.
1. On the `Rights management` section, click the `Users` options.
1. Click the `Add` button.
1. Enter the user's name.
1. On the `Authentication` dropdown menu, select `Require a password to log in` and enter the user password.
1. On the mount points section, click the `Add` button.
1. Below the `Virtual path`, enter the slash `/` character.
1. Below `Native path` enter the actual folder path the user will have access to. Example: `C:\Users\<User>\Desktop\ftp-server`.
1. Click the `Apply` button to confirm changes.

In this example, the `ftp-server` folder is available to the new registered user.

Follow the steps in the [FileZilla Client guide](actualurl) to test and access this server.

> **Note**: This step-by-step guide was written considering the FileZilla Server version 1.8.1 for Windows 10. The steps may vary depending on the software version and operating system used. However, the general idea is the same. Check the [official documentation](https://wiki.filezilla-project.org/Documentation) if you find differences in the order or availability of elements on the screen.
